Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture I want to talk about how we can implement the adapter pattern using object composition.
I'm going to show you two separate ways to implement this pattern.
One in this manner and another using inheritance which will be the class and after implementation.
So here's a nice class diagram that I took from head first design patterns that describes how you implement
the adapter using composition what you see here are no different objects the client the target the adapter
and the deputy.
The client is gonna use the target interface for all of its communication with the interface what the
target interfaces gonna do is it's gonna be implemented the adapter is gonna be implementing the target
interface and so the adapter implements the target interface by having a relationship with the adapter.
And the adapter will do all the conversion to make sure that the client can talk with the adapter.
So the adapter is composed with the adapter.
Right.
There's an instance of the adapting in the adapter class and all requests get delegated to the adapter.
And we'll see how that works when we go through a concrete example but at a high level these are the
objects that are involved and these are their responsibilities.
And just to reiterate the target defines a domain specific interface that the client uses the client
is gonna collaborate with objects conforming to the target interface the adoptee defines an existing
interface that needs adapting right that's the one that's incompatible and then the adapter will adopt
the interface of the adapters to the target interface we'll do all the conversion it involves a single
class which is responsible to joint functionalities of independent or incompatible interfaces it will
have a composition relationship with the adapter.
And this is how the client will use the adapter.
The client is implemented against the target interface as we mentioned so we'll send a request to the
target interface target interface is the adapter the adapter will have that interface and then we'll
have concrete classes and implement the adapter and so then that translated request will go to the adapter
to get the information it needs to do to return to the client.
And so this is just a good another illustration from the head design patterns book that really sums
up everything and how the client will use the adapter right.
Some of the things I mentioned before so a client makes a request adapter by calling a method on it
using the target interface.
The adapters translate the adapter I'm sorry translates the request into one or more calls on the adapter
using the adoptee interface and also has a composition relationship.
The client receives the results of the call never knows there's an adapter doing the translation is
completely abstracted completely transparent.
So essentially clients will call operations on the adapter instance and turn the adapter calls that
the operations that carry out the request.
Very very straightforward.
So to summarize adapters vary in the amount they work they they do to adapt the adapt the to the target
interface they'll either do simple interface conversion change the name of Operations Support an entirely
different set of operations so there may be methods and really the only difference is the names so they're
just essentially do a mapping.
Same with the attributes if you want to get certain attributes and the attributes are identical in each
class but they have different names so just do a mapping the amount of work the adapter does depends
on how similar the target interface is to the adapters if the adapter has more and more attributes and
more behaviors it will need to either stop a mile or say UN support operation or things like that.
Or if one of the methods in the adapter and the ADAPT is similar but it actually maybe does a different
calculation you have to decide how you're going to do that translation.
How are you gonna do that conversion.
The adapter frees you from worrying about existing interfaces.
If I have a class that does what I need I know that I can always use the adapter pattern to give it
the correct interface.
It's a very useful pattern and the lax lacks so we'll go through a concrete example of implementing
the adapter using object composition.
Thank you.